# Pharmacy Inventory Managment Database (MedcountDB)
Medication management database with a web-based UI for Create-Read-Update-Delete (CRUD) functionalities completed for Oregon State University CS340.

# Project Outline.
The objective of this project is to create a web-based UI with a database for inventory management of a pharmacy. Depending on drug shortages, expirations, medication usage and price, pharmacies will consistently adapt their inventory.
Beaver Drugs is a small community pharmacy that has been serving the town of Beaverville for over 50 years. Prior to the pandemic, Beaver Drugs averaged 100 prescriptions a day, which equated to approximately $1,825,000.00 in annual revenue. When the pandemic hit, public health measures were put into place that ultimately impacted their business. Being an older pharmacy, they decided it was time to modernize their business and implement changes. Noting that many folks would still need their medications regularly, but also might be at risk of contracting the disease, their first step was obtaining licensing to become a mail order pharmacy so that it was easier to provide the medications to their customers and keep them safe from pandemic risks. They then implemented a more robust software system to receive e-prescriptions, bill insurance, and improve their POS system. 
While other small town pharmacies were negatively impacted by the pandemic, the change in business model helped Beaver Drugs grow. Obtaining the mail-order pharmacy license dramatically increased their business and customer reach. Their prescription count quickly grew to an average of 250 a day, or $4,562,00.00 in annual revenue, and was still seemingly on the rise. At this time they began having inventory issues which caused patients to bring their prescriptions elsewhere, and the prescription count plateaued. Simply keeping track of what medications to order via pen and paper or by looking at the medication wall, was no longer working. To further increase business, they were looking for a more efficient method of tracking medication inventory. The pharmacy is short-staffed, therefore they may hire temps to order supplies or do other work to help the pharmacy techs, however, the temps are not employees. 
A database with web-based UI would greatly improve inventory management at Beaver Drugs. Designing a database would start with the entities Medications, Prescriptions, Purchase Orders, Suppliers, Patients, and Pharmacy Technicians. Pharmacy technicians will act as users to the web-based UI, where they will be able to manage medications inventory (Medications). Prescriptions will be used to dispense Medications (reducing inventory) to specific Patients. Purchase Orders will be used to order Medications (increasing inventory) from Suppliers. Pharmacy Technicians will be linked to the Purchase Orders as well. This will allow for efficient inventory management and monitoring as the pharmacy employees can view all Medications going in and out of inventory. The database will be designed with the capabilities to hold up to 20,000 different medications and up to 400,000 prescriptions annually. This accounts for over 90% of the approved FDA medications on the market, and business growth up to an average of 1,095 prescriptions a day. As medication usage varies based on an expanding customer base, the pharmacy will be able to retain new patients by keeping proper inventory and cut costs from incorrectly ordering medications that were no longer being prescribed to patients. 
